Chapter 1 of Uncle Remus and Brer Rabbit. This is a LibriVox recording. All LibriVox recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer, please visit librivox.org. Recording by Phil Schenwer. Uncle Remus and Brer Rabbit by Joel Chandler Harris. The Creatures Go to the Barbecue. "Once pon a time," said Uncle Remus to the little boy, 'But when was once upon a time?' the child interrupted to ask. The old man smiled. 'I spec' 'twas one time or two times, and maybe a time and a half. You know when Johnny Ashcake gone to bake? Well, 'twas long in dem days. Once upon a time,' he resumed, 'Mistah Man had a garden so fine dat all de neighbors come to see it. Some would look at it over de fence, —some would peek through de cracks, and some would come and look at it by de light of de stars. And one of 'em was ole Brer Rabbit. Starlight, moonlight, cloudlight, de night-light was de light for him. When de turn of de mornin' come, he is always up and about a-feelin' pretty well, I thank you, sah. Now den you done hear what I say. Dere was Mr. Man, Yonder was de garden, en hier was ole Brer Rabbit. Uncle Remus made a map of this part of the story by marking in the sand with his walking cane. "Well, dis bein' de case, what you spec' gwine ter happen?" "Nuthin' in de round world but what ben happenin' sence greens en sparragrass was planted in de ground. Dey look fine, en dey taste fine; en long towards de shank er de mawnin' Brer Rabbit would creep through de crack in de fence and nibble at 'em. He'd take de greens but leave his tracks, mo' specially right atter a rain. Takin' and leavin' is de way o' de world. Well, one mornin', Mr. Man went out in his truck patch, and he finds something missing—a cabbage here, a turnip dar, and a mess of beans yonder. And he asks, 'How come dis?' He look round, he did, and he seed Brer Rabbit's tracks what he couldn't take wid him. Brer Rabbit had left his shoes at home and come barfooted. So Mr. Man he call his dogs— 'Here, Buck! Here, Bringer! Here, Blue!'—and he sic 'em on de track, and heah dey went! Whew! You'd a-thunk dey was runnin' after 40 limb rhinoceroses, from de fuss dey made! Brer Rabbit he hear 'em coming, and he put out for home, kinder doubling round like he do dese days. When he got to de p'int wher' he kin sit down for to rest his face in his hands, he tuck a poplar leaf and he gone to fan hisself. Den Brer Fox come a-troddin' up. He say: "Brer Rabbit, what's all dis fuss I hear in de woods? What de name o' goodness do it mean?" Brer Rabbit kinder scratched his head and lowed: "Why, dey ain't trying for to drive me to de big barbecue on de creek. Dey all ax me, en when I fuse dey say dey ain't gwyne to make me go anyhow. Dey ain't no fun in bein' as pop'lus as what I is, Brer Fox. If you wanter go, des get in ahead er de hounds en go lickety-split down de big road." Brer Fox rolled his little eyes and licked his chops where he dribble at de mouth, and put out to de barbecue; and he ain't mo' den made his disappearance, fo' here comes Brer Wolf; and when he got de news, off he put; and he ain't mo''n got out o' sight, fo' here comes ole Brer Bear; and when he hear talk o' de bacon meat and de big pan o' gravy, He sot up on his behind legs and snorted; den off he put; and he ain't got out of hearing 'fo' Brer Coon come racking up, and when he got the news he put out. So dah dey was; and what you gwyne do about it? It seems like dey all got in front er de dogs—er, de dogs got behind 'em—and Brer Rabbit sot by de creekside laughing and hitting at de snake-doctors. Hee hee! And dem poor creturs had to go clean past de barbecue—if dey was any barbecue, which I don't scasely s'pect dey was. Dat what made me say what I does. When you git an invite to de barbecue, you better find out when and whar it's at, and who's runnin' it. Chapter 1.